## Article: [AgileFall – When Waterfall Sneaks Back Into Agile](https://steveblank.com/2019/09/17/agilefall-when-waterfall-sneaks-back-into-agile/)

Pulled from the top of [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/news), the article is particularly fitting for this class, as it details the inefficiencies within a Fortune 10 company caused by their adherence to an inflexible Waterfall development model, and how the company was ultimately able to increase efficiency after switching to a more purist model of Agile development. The article details that the company had 15 project managers overseeing 60 projects and delivering feedback to upper management in the form of quarterly reports. There were two problems with this feedback mechanism. First, the reports were so far spaced apart in time such that the information propagating up the management chain was not amenable to Agile processes wherein sprints would typically occur on much shorter timeframes so as to allow for rapid pivoting based on feedback from stakeholders and teammembers. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, the very nature of the information contained in the reports was not the proper *telos* of product management. Agile development models stress the importance of outcomes over documentation and reports, and as the reports were used as the sole metric by upper management, they had no means by which to properly assess progress. In Agile development processes, the measurement of progress is made trivial in the sense that it seeks to develop minimally viable functioning software continuously, and, as such, properly tested functioning code is the ultimate measure of progress. 

#### Comment by Rena Auerbach

My reaction to Henrich's process is similar to Michael and the author of the article: what?! Three month sprint periods? Is that even legal? Truthfully, to call this development process agile is truly inaccurate. Between the time line, reports, and priorities, Henrich seems to have created his own methodology. I'm glad the author was able to get Henrich back on track.   

